The Phat Dad Racing RC Receiver USB Adapter has been designed from the
ground up to be a high performance and high precision device for
contemporary computing platforms. It allows you to use standard RC
equipment, that is, your transmitter and receiver to control PC
applications. Essentially, it emulates a USB joystick that you control
with your RC transmitter. In addition to helping your RC enjoyment
extend into all times and weather conditions, it gives you that extra
time with the gear you use at the track or at the field – more time
means honing your skills. Arcade games, simulators and even data loggers
are some of the ways you can use it. Importantly, its hardware is ready
for full 4-channel action and the software is completely updatable with
no special software required to install updates or configurations. As
standard, it ships in 3-channel mode: two full-range proportional axes
and a button mapped to your radio’s channel 3. For RC cars & trucks,
this is steering, throttle and a button you can map to functions in your
favourite software.

As a modern device, it features a USB-C connector and full speed USB
communications speeds. A connector you can’t plug in the wrong way is
something everyone in RC has wished for! It also features a special
design for precise operation. Leveraging modern electronics, 16-bits of
data per channel and better than 1/10^th^ of a microsecond precision for
all four channels make this adapter unique.

Finally, it’s plug-and-play with modern operating systems with no custom
drivers required.

Before you start
----------------

-   It is recommended that your receiver has been bound to your
    transmitter. Refer to the instructions for your equipment on how to
    do this.

-   It is recommended that, where your radio set offers multiple model
    settings, you create or choose a model specific to the adapter. This
    allows settings to be tailored to how you use it.

-   It is recommended that you set the steering and throttle EPA points
    to 100% (or equivalent) before you calibrate

-   Where you plan to use channel 3 as a virtual button on the adapter,
    make sure that it’s “neutral” position is close to the midpoint of
    the range. Different radios have different starting points for the
    channel 3 function.

Plug the adapter into the RC receiver
-------------------------------------

-   For basic operation (2 channel – steering and throttle/brake), plug
    the 3-wire plug into the channel 1 (steering) port on the receiver.
    Plug the first single wire (black) into channel 2 (throttle), making
    sure to plug it into the signal port.

-   Where the third channel is to be used, plug the next single wire
    (red) into the channel 3 port.

-   There is no harm to plugging in unused wires, as long as they
    connect to the signal pins on the receiver. Likewise, there is no
    issue in leaving unused wires unplugged.

Windows 10
----------

-   Turn on transmitter, then plug adapter into PC. The receiver
    normally has a light to indicate it is bound to the transmitter –
    this should now be on.

-   The first time you plug the adapter into the USB port, Windows
    should recognise it automatically and display a message that it is
    setting up the new device.

-   Before first use, it’s important to calibrate the range of movement:

    -   Click your windows start button and start typing "usb game
        controller" as soon as you see the applet appear, click it

    -   The adapter will appear in the list, choose it and click
        "properties"

    -   Choose the "settings" tab and press "calibrate"

    -   Follow the instructions to set the min/max ranges for each
        channel. If you’re using it, channel 3 should make the button 1
        light up when you activate it

-   Calibration won’t be required for subsequent uses, unless you use a
    different receiver or transmitter profile.

Once you're calibrated, you're good to launch VRC Pro, go to
"options-&gt;control options" and check that it reads ok.
